hi this is fresh towel occur and in the
next few videos were going to discuss
game theory in the TV series Breaking
Bad we'll get started by discussing what
exactly game theory is specifically
we're going to compare decision theory
which is static it's a game theory which
is dynamic the general idea in decision
theory is that given a list of data are
given a set of circumstances you want to
make the best possible decision game
theory is much like that but it's
dynamic you can't just say the data is
given what you do will affect how others
will react so you need to think
strategically and anticipate how others
will react to make the best decision a
very simple example this is in decision
theory you know you might look at the
weather forecast and say well the
weather looks nice so I you know the
best decision is to go to the beach but
in game theory you're going to think
that well if the weather is nice others
are also going to think the weather is
nice they're also going to go to the
beach so you have to think strategically
that you'll go to the beach earlier in
the day when other people aren't there
and now we'll get to how this relates to
Breaking Bad is that the decision theory
way of going about it is that Walt would
just say I need to make money so I'm
going to sell drugs well quickly learns
that he needs to use game theory that he
realizes he's going to make enemies
while selling drugs and he's going to
have to think strategically to stay
ahead of them one of the first scenes
which sets this up is an episode three
Walt has there's krazy-8 has tried to
kill Walt and Jesse and so Walt has
taken him hostage he's now back at home
and he's deciding what to do this scene
shows Walt's thought process
you
so let's analyze the scene one very
important thing is that Walt makes a
list which has a left side which is all
decision theory and a right side which
is all game theory the left side was all
about morality guild principles taking
data trying to make the best possible
decision the right side of the list
which only had one item which was the
repercussions if he lets Crazy eight
live won't realizes that if he lets
crazy at live then Crazy Eights probably
going to kill him and all his family the
only way to go about this is that Walt
knows what he has to do I hope you like
this first video please keep watching
the rest of the series and please
subscribe to my channel you can also
catch me on my blog mind your decisions
or on twitter at pressure Saul Walker